metron-platform/metron-common/README.md, before:

#Query Language

For a variety of components (currently only threat intelligence triage) we have the need to determine if a condition is true of the JSON documents being enriched.  For those purposes, there exists a simple DSL created to define those conditions.

The query language supports the following:
* Referencing fields in the enriched JSON
* Simple boolean operations: and, not, or
* Determining whether a field exists (via `exists`)
* The ability to have parenthesis to make order of operations explicit
* A fixed set of functions which take strings and return boolean.  Currently:
    * `IN_SUBNET(ip, cidr1, cidr2, ...)`
    * `IS_EMPTY(str)`
    * `STARTS_WITH(str, prefix)`
    * `ENDS_WITH(str, suffix)`
    * `REGEXP_MATCH(str, pattern)`
* A fixed set of string to string transformation functions:
    * `TO_LOWER`
    * `TO_UPPER`
    * `TRIM`

Example query:

`IN_SUBNET( ip, '192.168.0.0/24') or ip in [ '10.0.0.1', '10.0.0.2' ] or exists(is_local)`

This evaluates to true precisely when one of the following is true:
* The value of the `ip` field is in the `192.168.0.0/24` subnet
* The value of the `ip` field is `10.0.0.1` or `10.0.0.2`
* The field `is_local` exists

#Enrichment Configuration

The configuration for the `enrichment` topology, the topology primarily
responsible for enrichment and threat intelligence enrichment, is
defined by JSON documents stored in zookeeper.

There are two types of configurations at the moment, `global` and
`sensor` specific.  

##Global Configuration
The format of the global enrichment is a JSON String to Object map.  This is intended for
configuration which is non sensor specific configuration.

This configuration is stored in zookeeper, but looks something like

```json
{
  "es.clustername": "metron",
  "es.ip": "node1",
  "es.port": "9300",
  "es.date.format": "yyyy.MM.dd.HH"
}
```

##Sensor Enrichment Configuration

The sensor specific configuration is intended to configure the
individual enrichments and threat intelligence enrichments for a given
sensor type (e.g. `snort`).

Just like the global config, the format is a JSON stored in zookeeper.
The configuration is a complex JSON object with the following top level fields:

* `index` : The name of the sensor
* `batchSize` : The size of the batch that is written to the indices at once.
* `enrichment` : A complex JSON object representing the configuration of the enrichments
* `threatIntel` : A complex JSON object representing the configuration of the threat intelligence enrichments

###The `enrichment` Configuration 


| Field            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Example                                                                   |
|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `fieldToTypeMap` | In the case of a simple HBase enrichment (i.e. a key/value lookup), the mapping between fields and the enrichment types associated with those fields must be known.  This enrichment type is used as part of the HBase key. | `"fieldToTypeMap" : { "ip_src_addr" : [ "asset_enrichment" ] }`  |
| `fieldMap`       | The map of enrichment bolts names to fields in the JSON messages.,Each field is sent to the enrichment referenced in the key.                                                                                                    | `"fieldMap": {"hbaseEnrichment": ["ip_src_addr","ip_dst_addr"]}` |

###The `threatIntel` Configuration 

| Field            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Example                                                                  |
|------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `fieldToTypeMap` | In the case of a simple HBase threat intel enrichment (i.e. a key/value lookup), the mapping between fields and the enrichment types associated with those fields must be known.  This enrichment type is used as part of the HBase key. | `"fieldToTypeMap" : { "ip_src_addr" : [ "malicious_ips" ] }`             |
| `fieldMap`       | The map of threat intel enrichment bolts names to fields in the JSON messages. Each field is sent to the threat intel enrichment bolt referenced in the key.                                                                              | `"fieldMap": {"hbaseThreatIntel": ["ip_src_addr","ip_dst_addr"]}`        |
| `triageConfig`   | The configuration of the threat triage scorer.  In the situation where a threat is detected, a score is assigned to the message and embedded in the indexed message.                                                                             | `"riskLevelRules" : { "IN_SUBNET(ip_dst_addr, '192.168.0.0/24')" : 10 }` |

The `triageConfig` field is also a complex field and it bears some description:

| Field            | Description                                                                                                                                                | Example                                                                  |
|------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `riskLevelRules` | The mapping of Metron Query Language (see above) queries to a score.                                                                                       | `"riskLevelRules" : { "IN_SUBNET(ip_dst_addr, '192.168.0.0/24')" : 10 }` |
| `aggregator`     | An aggregation function that takes all non-zero scores representing the matching queries from `riskLevelRules` and aggregates them into a single score. | `"MAX"`                                                                  |

The supported aggregation functions are:
* `MAX` : The max of all of the associated values for matching queries
* `MIN` : The min of all of the associated values for matching queries
* `MEAN` : The mean of all of the associated values for matching queries
* `POSITIVE_MEAN` : The mean of the positive associated values for the matching queries.

###Example

An example configuration for the YAF sensor is as follows:
```json
{
  "index": "yaf",
  "batchSize": 5,
  "enrichment": {
    "fieldMap": {
      "geo": [
        "ip_src_addr",
        "ip_dst_addr"
      ],
      "host": [
        "ip_src_addr",
        "ip_dst_addr"
      ],
      "hbaseEnrichment": [
        "ip_src_addr",
        "ip_dst_addr"
      ]
    }
  ,"fieldToTypeMap": {
      "ip_src_addr": [
        "playful_classification"
      ],
      "ip_dst_addr": [
        "playful_classification"
      ]
    }
  },
  "threatIntel": {
    "fieldMap": {
      "hbaseThreatIntel": [
        "ip_src_addr",
        "ip_dst_addr"
      ]
    },
    "fieldToTypeMap": {
      "ip_src_addr": [
        "malicious_ip"
      ],
      "ip_dst_addr": [
        "malicious_ip"
      ]
    },
    "triageConfig" : {
      "riskLevelRules" : {
        "ip_src_addr == '10.0.2.3' or ip_dst_addr == '10.0.2.3'" : 10
      },
      "aggregator" : "MAX"
    }
  }
}
```


##Management Utility

Configurations should be stored on disk in the following structure starting at `$BASE_DIR`:
* global.json : The global config
* `sensors` : The subdirectory containing sensor enrichment configuration JSON (e.g. `snort.json`, `bro.json`)

By default, this directory as deployed by the ansible infrastructure is at `$METRON_HOME/config/zookeeper`

While the configs are stored on disk, they must be loaded into Zookeeper to be used.  To this end, there is a
utility program to assist in this called `$METRON_HOME/bin/zk_load_config.sh`

This has the following options:

```
 -f,--force                                Force operation
 -h,--help                                 Generate Help screen
 -i,--input_dir <DIR>                      The input directory containing
                                           the configuration files named
                                           like "$source.json"
 -m,--mode <MODE>                          The mode of operation: DUMP,
                                           PULL, PUSH
 -o,--output_dir <DIR>                     The output directory which will
                                           store the JSON configuration
                                           from Zookeeper
 -z,--zk_quorum <host:port,[host:port]*>   Zookeeper Quorum URL
                                           (zk1:port,zk2:port,...)
```

Usage examples:

* To dump the existing configs from zookeeper on the singlenode vagrant machine: `$METRON_HOME/bin/zk_load_configs.sh -z node1:2181 -m DUMP`
* To push the configs into zookeeper on the singlenode vagrant machine: `$METRON_HOME/bin/zk_load_configs.sh -z node1:2181 -m PUSH -i $METRON_HOME/config/zookeeper`
* To pull the configs from zookeeper to the singlenode vagrant machine disk: `$METRON_HOME/bin/zk_load_configs.sh -z node1:2181 -m PULL -o $METRON_HOME/config/zookeeper -f`

Commit message:

METRON-183 Allow the simple hbase enrichment adapter and simple threat intel adapter to use multiple column families closes apache/incubator-metron#131

metron-platform/metron-common/README.md, after:

#Query Language

For a variety of components (currently only threat intelligence triage) we have the need to determine if a condition is true of the JSON documents being enriched.  For those purposes, there exists a simple DSL created to define those conditions.

The query language supports the following:
* Referencing fields in the enriched JSON
* Simple boolean operations: and, not, or
* Determining whether a field exists (via `exists`)
* The ability to have parenthesis to make order of operations explicit
* A fixed set of functions which take strings and return boolean.  Currently:
    * `IN_SUBNET(ip, cidr1, cidr2, ...)`
    * `IS_EMPTY(str)`
    * `STARTS_WITH(str, prefix)`
    * `ENDS_WITH(str, suffix)`
    * `REGEXP_MATCH(str, pattern)`
* A fixed set of string to string transformation functions:
    * `TO_LOWER`
    * `TO_UPPER`
    * `TRIM`

Example query:

`IN_SUBNET( ip, '192.168.0.0/24') or ip in [ '10.0.0.1', '10.0.0.2' ] or exists(is_local)`

This evaluates to true precisely when one of the following is true:
* The value of the `ip` field is in the `192.168.0.0/24` subnet
* The value of the `ip` field is `10.0.0.1` or `10.0.0.2`
* The field `is_local` exists

#Enrichment Configuration

The configuration for the `enrichment` topology, the topology primarily
responsible for enrichment and threat intelligence enrichment, is
defined by JSON documents stored in zookeeper.

There are two types of configurations at the moment, `global` and
`sensor` specific.  

##Global Configuration
The format of the global enrichment is a JSON String to Object map.  This is intended for
configuration which is non sensor specific configuration.

This configuration is stored in zookeeper, but looks something like

```json
{
  "es.clustername": "metron",
  "es.ip": "node1",
  "es.port": "9300",
  "es.date.format": "yyyy.MM.dd.HH"
}
```

##Sensor Enrichment Configuration

The sensor specific configuration is intended to configure the
individual enrichments and threat intelligence enrichments for a given
sensor type (e.g. `snort`).

Just like the global config, the format is a JSON stored in zookeeper.
The configuration is a complex JSON object with the following top level fields:

* `index` : The name of the sensor
* `batchSize` : The size of the batch that is written to the indices at once.
* `enrichment` : A complex JSON object representing the configuration of the enrichments
* `threatIntel` : A complex JSON object representing the configuration of the threat intelligence enrichments

###The `enrichment` Configuration 


| Field            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Example                                                          |
|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `fieldToTypeMap` | In the case of a simple HBase enrichment (i.e. a key/value lookup), the mapping between fields and the enrichment types associated with those fields must be known.  This enrichment type is used as part of the HBase key. | `"fieldToTypeMap" : { "ip_src_addr" : [ "asset_enrichment" ] }`  |
| `fieldMap`       | The map of enrichment bolts names to fields in the JSON messages.,Each field is sent to the enrichment referenced in the key.                                                                                                 | `"fieldMap": {"hbaseEnrichment": ["ip_src_addr","ip_dst_addr"]}` |
| `config`         | The general configuration for the enrichment                                                                                                                                                                                  | `"config": {"typeToColumnFamily": { "asset_enrichment","cf" } }` |

The `config` map is intended to house enrichment specific configuration.
For instance, for the `hbaseEnrichment`, the mappings between the
enrichment types to the column families is specified.

###The `threatIntel` Configuration 

| Field            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Example                                                                  |
|------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `fieldToTypeMap` | In the case of a simple HBase threat intel enrichment (i.e. a key/value lookup), the mapping between fields and the enrichment types associated with those fields must be known.  This enrichment type is used as part of the HBase key. | `"fieldToTypeMap" : { "ip_src_addr" : [ "malicious_ips" ] }`             |
| `fieldMap`       | The map of threat intel enrichment bolts names to fields in the JSON messages. Each field is sent to the threat intel enrichment bolt referenced in the key.                                                                              | `"fieldMap": {"hbaseThreatIntel": ["ip_src_addr","ip_dst_addr"]}`        |
| `triageConfig`   | The configuration of the threat triage scorer.  In the situation where a threat is detected, a score is assigned to the message and embedded in the indexed message.                                                                    | `"riskLevelRules" : { "IN_SUBNET(ip_dst_addr, '192.168.0.0/24')" : 10 }` |
| `config`         | The general configuration for the Threat Intel                                                                                                                                                                                                | `"config": {"typeToColumnFamily": { "malicious_ips","cf" } }`            |

The `config` map is intended to house threat intel specific configuration.
For instance, for the `hbaseThreatIntel` threat intel adapter, the mappings between the
enrichment types to the column families is specified.

The `triageConfig` field is also a complex field and it bears some description:

| Field            | Description                                                                                                                                                | Example                                                                  |
|------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `riskLevelRules` | The mapping of Metron Query Language (see above) queries to a score.                                                                                       | `"riskLevelRules" : { "IN_SUBNET(ip_dst_addr, '192.168.0.0/24')" : 10 }` |
| `aggregator`     | An aggregation function that takes all non-zero scores representing the matching queries from `riskLevelRules` and aggregates them into a single score. | `"MAX"`                                                                  |

The supported aggregation functions are:
* `MAX` : The max of all of the associated values for matching queries
* `MIN` : The min of all of the associated values for matching queries
* `MEAN` : The mean of all of the associated values for matching queries
* `POSITIVE_MEAN` : The mean of the positive associated values for the matching queries.

###Example

An example configuration for the YAF sensor is as follows:
```json
{
  "index": "yaf",
  "batchSize": 5,
  "enrichment": {
    "fieldMap": {
      "geo": [
        "ip_src_addr",
        "ip_dst_addr"
      ],
      "host": [
        "ip_src_addr",
        "ip_dst_addr"
      ],
      "hbaseEnrichment": [
        "ip_src_addr",
        "ip_dst_addr"
      ]
    }
  ,"fieldToTypeMap": {
      "ip_src_addr": [
        "playful_classification"
      ],
      "ip_dst_addr": [
        "playful_classification"
      ]
    }
  },
  "threatIntel": {
    "fieldMap": {
      "hbaseThreatIntel": [
        "ip_src_addr",
        "ip_dst_addr"
      ]
    },
    "fieldToTypeMap": {
      "ip_src_addr": [
        "malicious_ip"
      ],
      "ip_dst_addr": [
        "malicious_ip"
      ]
    },
    "triageConfig" : {
      "riskLevelRules" : {
        "ip_src_addr == '10.0.2.3' or ip_dst_addr == '10.0.2.3'" : 10
      },
      "aggregator" : "MAX"
    }
  }
}
```


##Management Utility

Configurations should be stored on disk in the following structure starting at `$BASE_DIR`:
* global.json : The global config
* `sensors` : The subdirectory containing sensor enrichment configuration JSON (e.g. `snort.json`, `bro.json`)

By default, this directory as deployed by the ansible infrastructure is at `$METRON_HOME/config/zookeeper`

While the configs are stored on disk, they must be loaded into Zookeeper to be used.  To this end, there is a
utility program to assist in this called `$METRON_HOME/bin/zk_load_config.sh`

This has the following options:

```
 -f,--force                                Force operation
 -h,--help                                 Generate Help screen
 -i,--input_dir <DIR>                      The input directory containing
                                           the configuration files named
                                           like "$source.json"
 -m,--mode <MODE>                          The mode of operation: DUMP,
                                           PULL, PUSH
 -o,--output_dir <DIR>                     The output directory which will
                                           store the JSON configuration
                                           from Zookeeper
 -z,--zk_quorum <host:port,[host:port]*>   Zookeeper Quorum URL
                                           (zk1:port,zk2:port,...)
```

Usage examples:

* To dump the existing configs from zookeeper on the singlenode vagrant machine: `$METRON_HOME/bin/zk_load_configs.sh -z node1:2181 -m DUMP`
* To push the configs into zookeeper on the singlenode vagrant machine: `$METRON_HOME/bin/zk_load_configs.sh -z node1:2181 -m PUSH -i $METRON_HOME/config/zookeeper`
* To pull the configs from zookeeper to the singlenode vagrant machine disk: `$METRON_HOME/bin/zk_load_configs.sh -z node1:2181 -m PULL -o $METRON_HOME/config/zookeeper -f`
