deployment/amazon-ec2/README.md, before:

Apache Metron on Amazon EC2
===========================

This project fully automates the provisioning of Apache Metron on Amazon EC2 infrastructure.  Starting with only your Amazon EC2 credentials, this project will create a fully-functioning, end-to-end, multi-node cluster running Apache Metron.

Getting Started
---------------

The host that will be used to drive the provisioning process will need to have [Ansible](https://github.com/ansible/ansible), Python and PIP installed.  In most cases, a development laptop serves this purpose just fine.  For better performance, run this playbook on a pre-provisioned EC2 host.

Ensure that an SSH key has been generated.  The playbook will attempt to register `~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub` with each provisioned host so that an SSH connection can be established.  If one does not exist, use `ssh-keygen` to create one.

1. Install the Python library `boto` and its dependencies.  This enables Ansible to communicate with Amazon EC2.

  ```
  pip install boto six
  ```

2. Use Amazon's [IAM](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/) tool to generate an access key.  Export these access keys in an environment variable so that Ansible can authenticate with Amazon EC2.

  ```
  export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="..."
  export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="..."
  ```

3. Build Metron's streaming topology uber-jar.

  ```
  cd ../../metron-streaming
  mvn clean package -DskipTests
  ```

4. Kick-off the provisioning playbook.  If the playbook fails mid-stream for any reason, simply re-run it.  This will attempt to re-provision on the previously instantiated EC2 hosts.

  ```
  export EC2_INI_PATH=conf/ec2.ini
  ansible-playbook -i ec2.py playbook.yml
  ```

Each of the provisioned hosts will be externally accessible from the internet at-large. Connecting to one over SSH as the user `centos` will not require a password as it will authenticate with the pre-defined SSH key.  

```
ssh centos@ec2-52-91-215-174.compute-1.amazonaws.com
```

Multiple Environments
---------------------

This process can support provisioning of multiple, isolated environments.  Simply change the `env` settings in `conf/defaults.yml`.  For example, you might provision separate development, test, and production environments.

```
env: metron-test
```

Commit message:

METRON-64 Fixed 'dns/Log::WRITER_KAFKAWRITER' Error (nickwallen via cestella) closes apache/incubator-metron#43

deployment/amazon-ec2/README.md, after:

Apache Metron on Amazon EC2
===========================

This project fully automates the provisioning of Apache Metron on Amazon EC2 infrastructure.  Starting with only your Amazon EC2 credentials, this project will create a fully-functioning, end-to-end, multi-node cluster running Apache Metron.

Getting Started
---------------

The host that will be used to drive the provisioning process will need to have [Ansible](https://github.com/ansible/ansible), Python and PIP installed.  In most cases, a development laptop serves this purpose just fine.  For better performance, run this playbook on a pre-provisioned EC2 host.

Ensure that an SSH key has been generated.  The playbook will attempt to register `~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub` with each provisioned host so that an SSH connection can be established.  If one does not exist, use `ssh-keygen` to create one.

1. Install the Python library `boto` and its dependencies.  This enables Ansible to communicate with Amazon EC2.

  ```
  pip install boto six
  ```

2. Use Amazon's [IAM](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/) tool to generate an access key.  Export these access keys in an environment variable so that Ansible can authenticate with Amazon EC2.

  ```
  export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="..."
  export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="..."
  ```

3. Build Metron's streaming topology uber-jar.

  ```
  cd ../../metron-streaming
  mvn clean package -DskipTests
  ```

4. Kick-off the provisioning playbook.  If the playbook fails mid-stream for any reason, simply re-run it.  This will attempt to re-provision on the previously instantiated EC2 hosts.

  ```
  export EC2_INI_PATH=conf/ec2.ini
  ansible-playbook -i ec2.py playbook.yml
  ```

Each of the provisioned hosts will be externally accessible from the internet at-large. Connecting to one over SSH as the user `centos` will not require a password as it will authenticate with the pre-defined SSH key.  

```
ssh centos@ec2-52-91-215-174.compute-1.amazonaws.com
```

Usage
-----

### Multiple Environments

This process can support provisioning of multiple, isolated environments.  Simply change the `env` settings in `conf/defaults.yml`.  For example, you might provision separate development, test, and production environments.

```
env: metron-test
```

### Selective Provisioning

To provision only subsets of the entire Metron deployment, Ansible tags can be specified.  For example, to only deploy the sensors on an Amazon EC2 environment, run the following command.

```
ansible-playbook -i ec2.py playbook.yml --tags "ec2,sensors"
```
