metron-deployment/vagrant/singlenode-vagrant/README.md, before:

Apache Metron on Virtualbox
===========================

This project fully automates the provisioning of Apache Metron on single, virtualized host running on Virtualbox.  Metron is composed of many components and installing all of these on a single host, especially a virtualized one, will greatly stress your computer.   To work sufficiently this will require at least 8 GB of RAM and a fair amount of patience.

Getting Started
---------------

### Prerequisites

The computer used to deploy Apache Metron will need to have the following components installed.

 - [Ansible](https://github.com/ansible/ansible) 2.0.0.2
 - [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com) 1.8.1
 - [Virtualbox](virtualbox.org) 5.0.16
 - Python 2.7.11
 - Maven 3.3.9

Any platform that supports these tools is suitable, but the following instructions cover installation on Mac OS X only.  The easiest means of installing these tools on a Mac is to use the excellent [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) project.

1. Install Homebrew by running the following command in a terminal.  Refer to the  [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) home page for the latest installation instructions.

  ```
  /usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
  ```

2. With Homebrew installed, run the following command in a terminal to install all of the required tools.

  ```  
  brew cask install vagrant virtualbox
  brew install brew-pip maven git
  pip install ansible==2.0.0.2
  ```

3. Install Vagrant Hostmanager.

  ```
  vagrant plugin install vagrant-hostmanager
  ```

### Metron

Now that the hard part is done, start the Metron deployment process.

1. Build Metron

  ```
  cd metron-platform
  mvn clean package -DskipTests
  ```

2. Deploy Metron

  ```
  cd metron-deployment/vagrant/singlenode-vagrant
  vagrant up
  ```

  Should the process fail before completing the deployment, the following command will continue the deployment process without re-instantiating the host.

  ```
  vagrant provision
  ```

### Explore Metron

Navigate to the following resources to explore your newly minted Apache Metron environment.

 - [Metron](http://node1:8080)
 - [Ambari](http://node1:5000)

Connecting to the host through SSH is as simple as running the following command.

   ```
   vagrant ssh
   ```

Commit message:

METRON-91 Vagrant deploy: expose tags and skip_tags (dlyle65535) closes apache/incubator-metron#99

metron-deployment/vagrant/singlenode-vagrant/README.md, after:

Apache Metron on Virtualbox
===========================

This project fully automates the provisioning of Apache Metron on single, virtualized host running on Virtualbox.  Metron is composed of many components and installing all of these on a single host, especially a virtualized one, will greatly stress your computer.   To work sufficiently this will require at least 8 GB of RAM and a fair amount of patience.

Getting Started
---------------

### Prerequisites

The computer used to deploy Apache Metron will need to have the following components installed.

 - [Ansible](https://github.com/ansible/ansible) 2.0.0.2
 - [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com) 1.8.1
 - [Virtualbox](virtualbox.org) 5.0.16
 - Python 2.7.11
 - Maven 3.3.9

Any platform that supports these tools is suitable, but the following instructions cover installation on Mac OS X only.  The easiest means of installing these tools on a Mac is to use the excellent [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) project.

1. Install Homebrew by running the following command in a terminal.  Refer to the  [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) home page for the latest installation instructions.

  ```
  /usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
  ```

2. With Homebrew installed, run the following command in a terminal to install all of the required tools.

  ```  
  brew cask install vagrant virtualbox
  brew install brew-pip maven git
  pip install ansible==2.0.0.2
  ```

3. Install Vagrant Hostmanager.

  ```
  vagrant plugin install vagrant-hostmanager
  ```

### Metron

Now that the hard part is done, start the Metron deployment process.

1. Build Metron

  ```
  cd metron-platform
  mvn clean package -DskipTests
  ```

2. Deploy Metron

  ```
  cd metron-deployment/vagrant/singlenode-vagrant
  vagrant up
  ```

  Should the process fail before completing the deployment, the following command will continue the deployment process without re-instantiating the host.

  ```
  vagrant provision
  ```
  
  In addition to re-running the entire provisioning play book, you may now re-run an individual Ansible tag or a collection of tags in the following ways.
  
  ```
  ./run_ansible_role.sh web
  ```
  or
  ```
  vagrant --ansible-tags="web" provision
  ```
  Will re-run the web role on the Vagrant image. This will re-install (if necessary) and start the UI.
   
  A collection of tags is specified as a comma separated list.
  
  ```
  ./run_ansbile_role.sh "sensors,enrichment"
  
  ```
  
  Tags are listed in the playbooks, some frequently used tags:
  + hdp-install - Install HDP
  + hdp-deploy - Deploy and Start HDP Services (will start all Hadoop Services)
  + sensors - Deploy and Start Sensors.
  + enrichment - Deploy and Start Enrichment Topology.
  
  Note: there is a convienence script, ```./run_enrichment_role.sh```,  which runs the enrichment tag.
  
### Explore Metron

Navigate to the following resources to explore your newly minted Apache Metron environment.

 - [Metron](http://node1:8080)
 - [Ambari](http://node1:5000)

Connecting to the host through SSH is as simple as running the following command.

   ```
   vagrant ssh
   ```
